---
output: html_document
---
Human-Activity-Recognition Code Book
==========================

This file described the source data, the tidy dataset generated by the script `run_analysis.R` and the procedure to generate it.

## Original data

The data used by the script are data collected from the accelerometers from the Samsung Galaxy S smartphone. They are provided by the UCI machine learning repository, a full description is available [here](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones). The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. A detailled description of these data can be found in the 'README.txt' file providedwith the date.

For the script to run properly, data have to be downloaded and extracted to a folder named "UCI HAR Dataset" within R's working directory.

The present analysis do not consider the raw data of the accelerometer (located in the 'Inertial Signals' subfolders). We only use the processed data corresponding to the 561-feature vector with time and frequency domain variables. Furthermore, to create the tidy dataset, we restrict our analysis to the 79 features related to mean or standard deviation (i.e. containing "mean" or "std" in their name). The list of features considered are contained in the character vector 'mean.or.std.features' in the script.

## Transformations

The following describes the procedured used to obtain the tidy dataset

### Reading of the source data into test and training dataframes

Reads the input data into the following variables :
* `test`
* `training`

Both are dataframes containing the following variables :
* Subject : a numeric corresponding to the id of the subject (between 1 and 30)
* Activity: a numeric correspondingto to the type of activity (between 1 and 6)
* the 561 time and frequency variables, labelled with variables names indicated in activity_labels.txt (in the source data)

Note: For consistency with the description of the original data, the variables names are not changed along the processing (although they are syntactically invalid in R viewpoint due to characters '(', ')' and '-' ).

### Merging of test and training datasets

`test` and `training` datasets are merged (using rbind() command) into a dataframe names `merged.data`. The latter is sorted by Subject id and Activity.

### Restriction to 'mean' and 'std' features

From the `merged.data`, we keep the following variables :
* Subject id
* Activity
* 79 features related to mean or standard deviation values (i.e. containing "mean" or "std" in their name)
Result goes into the `mean.and.std.data` variable.

### Tidy dataset

From `mean.and.std.data`, we create a independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject. THis is done using the aggregate() command. The result is sorted by Subject and Activity.


## Summary of all the variables used in the script (by order of assignment)

* features.names: a dataframe, listing the id and names of the 561 measured features
    features id: numeric, id of the variable
    features.txt: character, name of the feature
    


